Shawn Vuong
225 Prospect Street Vermillion, SD 57069
413 Cedar St. Yankton, SD 57078
Phone: 605.310.8163 E-Mail: Shawn.Vuong@usd.edu

Scientific Presentations and Publications

**Vuong**, SM, Scholl, JS and Forster, GL. (2008). Amphetamine Treatment Increases Neural Response to Stress Hormone.
Poster Presentation at The University of South Dakota IdeaFest Research Forum.

**Vuong**, SM, Scholl, JS and Forster, GL. (2007). Changes in a neural stress system as a result of amphetamine
treatment. Poster Presentation at The University of South Dakota IdeaFest Undergraduate Research Forum.

Forster, GL, Pringle, RB, Mouw, NJ, **Vuong**, SM, Watt, MJ, Burke, AR, Lowry, CA, Summers, CH, and Renner, KJ.
Corticotropin-releasing factor in the dorsal raphe nucleus increases medial prefrontal cortical serotonin via type 2
receptors and median raphe nucleus activity. Submitted to European Journal of Neuroscience.

# Experience                                                                    
 ## Research Technician January 2006 -- July 2010                                 
 - University of South Dakota                                                     
 - Assist with data collection and lab duties pertaining to experiments           
 - Research work done under Gina L. Forster Ph.D.                                 
 ## Emergency Medical Technician - Intermediate July 2005 -- July 2010            
 - Vermillion/Clay County EMS                                                     
 - Provide Basic Life Support at emergency scenes, transfers, and stand-bys       
 - Received certification on May 14th 2005 through NREMT for the EMT-Basic        
 - Received certification on June 27th 2007 through NREMT for the                 
   EMT-Intermediate                                                               
 ## Phlebotomist May 2005 -- January 2006                                         
 - Avera McKennan                                                                 
 - Blood draw through venipuncture, assist with drawing though a PICC line,       
   port-o-cath, or Arterial line                                                  
 - Organizes specimen collection requests, performs patient clinical laboratory   
   specimen collection procedures, specimen transport and point-of-care testing   
   procedures following established standards and practices                       
 ## Certified Nursing Assistant June 2004 -- May 2005                             
 - Avera Prince of Peace                                                          
 - Take vitals, assist residents with Activities of Daily Living, ambulate        
   residents, feed residents, assist in post mortem care                          
 - Received Certification July 27th 2004 through South Dakota Health Care         
   Association and was placed on South Dakota Nurse Aide Registry                 

# Education                                                                      
## University of South Dakota Sanford School of Medicine 
 * August 2008 -- May 2012                                                                              
 * Medicine -- MD                                                                   

 ## University of South Dakota September 2004 -- May 2008                         
 * Undergraduate -- Biology BS; *Summa Cum Laude*                                   
                                                                                  
## West Central High School September 2000 -- May 2004                           
 * General High School Degree -- Honor Roll Student; Top 20                         

# Awards and Activities  
Nationally Registered Emergency Medical Technician -- Intermediate Level (NREMT-I/85), Sanford School of Medicine Medical Student Summer Research Fellowship, University of South Dakota Undergraduate Research Grant, Phi Delta Theta John B. Jackson, Jr. Scholarship, Phi Eta Sigma Honor Society, Dean's List - Eight Consecutive Semesters, Certified Nursing Assistant, HIPPA, Trained in First Aid, BLS Instructor, First Degree Black Belt, Vice-President Mortarboard Honor Society, USD Tech Fellow (3), Phi Delta Theta \[ΦΔΘ\] (3), Student Government Association Senator, Program Council -- After Hours Chair, Pre-Med Society, Play Guitar (3), DJ at KAOR, Photographer for the "Volante" (2)

1^st^ Year of Medical School 2008-2009

- Started Scholarship Pathways Program -- 2 Blogs

- Tutored high school algebra & physical science -- for a freshman

- Volunteer for community ambulance -- 36 hours on call per week

- Created and managed student digital test file

- Helped promote AMA 5K -- poster and website

- Donated 15 hours to DM to create promotional video

- Spent time doing some freelance photography work

- Helped start and promote MSAA -- currently run website

- Worked with Andy Novick to create class video

- Gave STD talk to Parker High School sophomore class with Liz Davis

- Active member of Brain Interest Group (BIG)

- Avera Clinical First Steps

- Private Pilot's License = July 31^st^ ASEL

 

Corticotropin-Releasing Factor Receptor Antagonism within the Dorsal
Raphe Nucleus Reduces Social Anxiety-Like Behavior after Early-Life
Social Isolation

Jodi Lukkes, Shawn Vuong, Jamie Scholl, Harvey Oliver, and Gina Forster

J. Neurosci. 2009;29 9955-9960

2^st^ Year of Medical School 2009-2010

- Continued Scholarship Pathways Program -- 2 Blogs

- Tutored high school biology -- for a sophomore

- Volunteer for community ambulance -- 24 hours on call per week (Fall
  semester) -- EMT-I through June 30^th^ 2010

- Continued to manage student digital test file and MSAA website

- Sea Plane License and training = September 6^th^ ASES + ASEL

- Created a "[Why is physics important for medical
  school](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3ZHM9Ssxn8&feature=player_embedded)"
  video with Ryan Sivertson & Andy Ridder

- Instructor for EMT Basic course -- taught human anatomy & physiology,
  vital signs & SAMPLE history taking, pharmacology, respiratory system,
  cardiac system, recognition and treatment of bleeding and shock

- Assisted with promotion of class morale booster -- MS2 MVP of the
  Week! (Andy Novick and Jordan Nordquist)

- Worked on the Code of Professional Conduct (CPC)Task Force, and was a
  key player in adding language specifically to provide clarification or
  addition of information regarding the use of internet social
  networking and other technology issues.

- Spent time doing some freelance photography work

- Volunteered to help undergraduate pre-med society with square knot
  tying (Many other medical students involved -- Cathy Logue and Dr.
  Yutrzenka oversaw the "skills lab")

- Helped promote AMA 5K -- poster, brochure, and website (Carl
  Rasmussen)

Vuong, S, Oliver, H., Scholl, J., Oliver K., and Forster G. (2009).
Increased anxiety-like behavior of rats during amphetamine withdrawal is
reversed by CRF-2 receptor antagonism. Behavioural Brain Research, 208
(2010) 278--281

3^rd^ Year of Medical School 2010-2011

Scholl JL, Vuong SM, Forster GL. Chronic amphetamine treatment enhances
corticotropin-releasing factor-induced serotonin release in the
amygdala. Eur J Pharmacol. 2010 Oct 10;644(1-3):80-7. Epub 2010 Jul 23.

- Continued Scholarship Pathways Program -- 2 Blogs (discontinued one
  started a new), 1 Lecture on Social Networking

- Tutored high school chemistry -- for a junior

- Attended Creighton University Esophageal Conference -- Dr. Trail

- Donated 8 hours to Coyoteopoly (Local philanthropy group collecting
  donations for the Vermillion Food Pantry) as a driver

- Appointed President of the USD SSOM AMA-Medical Student Section (MSS)
  for the Yankton campus

- As of March 2011 have logged over 1100 patient encounters and over 220
  surgeries (most having first assisted)

- Helped promote AMA-5K for the third year -- updated and maintained
  website

- Volunteered a day to help MS2s learn how to suture

- Volunteered to speak to Pre-meds about medical school
